---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

[Download full CV as PDF](https://amandawhitmire.github.io/files/cv.pdf)

## Professional & research experience 

### December 2015 - Present: [Stanford Libraries](https://library.stanford.edu/)

_Head Librarian and Bibliographer, [Harold A. Miller Library](https://library.stanford.edu/hopkins)_
My main goals are to:
1. support excellence in research by any means necessary, with physical and virtual library spaces and collections;
2. facilitate effective stewardship and curation of information and data generated by the research community at Hopkins Marine Station;
3. extend the preservation efforts of HMS archive collections to create actionable research products, thus broadening their utility and impact; and,
4. share the remarkable work of Hopkins researchers with our local community through meaningful engagement with diverse audiences.

I am responsible for the overall management of the Harold A. Miller Library. I make purchase decisions for books, journals, and electronic resources in marine sciences. I help Hopkins residents find the information they need, procure documents not available on site or online, and provide instruction on use of physical and virtual library resources and spaces. I also provide research services, including consultations on data management, sharing and curation. I manage the Miller Library's web pages and Facebook presence.

_Assistant to the Director, [Hopkins Marine Station](hopkinsmarinestation.stanford.edu/)_. In my role as Assistant to the Director of the Station, I help with fundraising, publicity, and tours. 

### 2012 - 2015: [Oregon State University Libraries and Press](https://library.oregonstate.edu/)

_Assistant Professor, Data Management Specialist_. As a core leader 

#### Jan. 2012 – Aug. 2012: Oregon State University	
_Research Associate (post-doctoral), College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences_ | Research adviser: Angelicque (Angel) White

#### July 2008 – Dec. 2011: Oregon State University	
_Research Associate (post-doctoral), College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences_ | Research adviser: Ricardo Letelier

## EDUCATION

**2008: Ph.D., Oceanography** Oregon State University, College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Corvallis, Oregon | [“The spectral backscattering properties of marine particles”](http://hdl.handle.net/1957/9088)

**2000: B.S. with honors, Aquatic Biology** University of California at Santa Barbara, College of Letters and Science, Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology, Santa Barbara, California


## CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION
 - Software Carpentry Instructor Training, 2-day Workshop, softwarecarperntry.org, Feb. 2018
 - Data Carpentry, 2-day Workshop, datacarperntry.org [event host and participant], Nov. 2017
 - Data Carpentry, 2-day Workshop, datacarperntry.org, June 2015
 - R Programming, Coursera course, certificate earned with distinction, Dec. 2014
 - Data Scientist's Toolbox, Coursera course, certificate earned with distinction, Dec. 2014
 - Curating & Managing Research Data for Re-Use, Inter-university Consortium for Political & Social Research (ICPSR); 5-day workshop, Aug. 2013
 - Presenting Data & Information, Edward Tufte; 1-day workshop, July 2013
 - ARL-ACRL Institute on Scholarly Communication, “Increasing the Effectiveness of Your Scholarly Communication Program: Strategic Skills for Success,” Association of Research Libraries (ARL) and the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL); 2-day workshop, Apr. 2013


## Research outputs

A full list of research outputs is available [here](https://amandawhitmire.github.io/products/).

